# CS-300

The purpose of the analysis done in Project One was to identify the advantages, disadvantages, and runtimes of each individual data structure used in the creation of a database of school courses, containing their prerequisites if any were present from an input file. The data structures used in the analysis included vectors, hashtable, and a binary search tree. Project Two's purpose was to develop the code to create the aforementioned database of school courses and their prerequisites from the input file.

My approach was to utilize the analysis I had done for each data structure and combine that with my comfort with said data structures to form usable code according to program requirements, which included reading data from an input file, reading the data within the file into objects, and then storing that data into a structure. Additionally, another function needed was a user menu which could load a selected data structure, print out an alphanumeric course list with their respective prerequisites, and finally allow the user to specifically pull up a course with their prerequisites if present within the list as well. I took this approach because data structures allow us to organize and store data, so the analysis is done to best match which one would be most appropriate in regards to a program's requirements. For example, when it comes to efficiency, if a binary search tree cannot become balanced with the given data, there is little point in picking that for the program.

Admittedly, I had to initially stray from the original data structure that I chose, which was a binary search tree, to a structure utilizing vectors instead. One of the biggest roadblocks was trying to fully understand how to read and store the data from the input file. I still did not fully quite grasp it in the end, but I have a greater understanding moving forward on how to better approach that particular set of tasks. This project made me understand that if information is not quite clicking, try to refocus on the task from a different perspective and never give up. These projects have also made me realize that there are usually multiple ways to go about solving a problem. Another realization is that documentation of the processes through in-line comments is very effective in helping with the readability of code.


 
